# Exercise 3
## Creating small tools


1) Read [the man page for the UNIX command tee](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man1/tee.1.html).  
And [the Wikipedia page about it](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tee_(command)).

2) Write an implementation of `tee` that takes the same command-line
arguments (short form only, or for optional extra fun, both long and
short form).  Implementing the `-i` option is optional.

This is meant as an exercise in efficient C development, which includes:

* Problem decomposition: what pieces do I need?

- something that constantly prompts a user for an input 
- something that takes an input and buffers it to an output 

* Solution location: mostly Google->stackoverflow.

* Assimilation: bringing in the pieces and testing them.

* Integration: putting the pieces together. 

For this particular problem, we could skip just find a solution.  But let's take the opportunity to practice.

3) Reflect: what worked, what slowed you down?  What would you do
differently next time?

At first it was confusing to me that typing a command like `ls | tee ____` would result in all my files being availiable within my program by using `stdin`. My logic was that everything executed before calling my program couldn't be accessed by my program. Took me some time to understand that the pipe command was sending everything to the tee command.

4) Compare your solution to [this professional implementation](https://opensource.apple.com/source/shell_cmds/shell_cmds-170/tee/tee.c) or [this one](http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=coreutils.git;a=blob;f=src/tee.c;h=5f04bfc86243911be2fb22c7c28447ae6fb0f993;hb=75aababed45d0120d44baa76c5107d0ceb71fc59).  What do you see in professional code that is not in your solution?

The professional code allows for pipping to multiple files, there is way more error catching, and more options are availiable to the user (e.g., `-a`).

5) Write comments in your code to answer the last two questions, then check it in to the repo.
