# Exercise 2
## Pointers


### The address space

1. Compile and run `aspace.c` in this directory.

2. Read the code.  You might want to [read about malloc here](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/c_standard_library/c_function_malloc.htm).

3. Based on the output, draw a sketch of the virtual address space (see page 80 of HFC).  Show the relative locations of the stack, heap, globals, constants, and code.

4. Add a second call to `malloc` and check whether the heap on your system grows up (toward larger addresses).  


    The address of p changes from 0x2077010 to 0x9ba010 when adding another call to `malloc`.

5. Add a function that prints the address of a local variable, and check whether the stack grows down.  


    Printing the address of var2 yields the same location at the beginning and end of the code. 

6. Choose a random number between 1 and 32, and allocate two chunks with that size. How much space is there between them?  Hint: Google knows how to subtract hexadecimal numbers.

    
    I chose 16, and Google tells me there's 32 decimal values (bytes?) of space in between them.


### Stack allocated data

1.  Read `stack.c`, which should be in this directory.  What is it
intended to do?  What would the output be if the program worked as
expected?

    `stack.c` is intended to create two arrays of size 5 where one array is defined using an array pointer and the other is defined without an array pointer. Each element in the array pointer array is set to 42, whereas each element in the other array is set to be equal to its index in the array. After each array is constructed, each element in the pointer array is meant to be printed, from list to high index.
    
2.  Compile it.  Do you get a warning?  What does it mean?

    I got a warning that says "function returns address of local variable". I assume this means that the *foo() function is supposed to return an integer pointer, but is instead returning an array, and for this reason the compiler is unhappy.

3.  Run it.  What happens?  You might get a segmentation fault, or you might get some strange output.  Can you explain it?  You might find it helpful to draw a stack diagram.

    I got a segmentation fault. My guess is that `*foo()` is returning an address local to the function, and when this address is accessed in `main()`, we don't have read/write acess.  

4.  Comment out the `print` statements in `foo()` and `bar()` and run
it again.  What happens now?

    The same error occurs, but it appears that the local variables are stored at the same location for both the `foo()` and `bar()` function.

5.  Add comments to the code to explain these experiments and the results,
then check the code in to the repo.

Moral: Don't return pointers to stack allocated data!


### Write some code

Create a file named `adder.c` and write a program that allows the user to enter integers, one per line, until the user hits Control-D, which is the end-of-file (EOF) character.

It should convert the numbers from input strings to integers and store the integers in an array.  The program should produce appropriate error messages if the user enters something that exceeds the length of the input buffer, or can't be converted to an integer.  It should also produce an error message if the user enters more numbers than will fit in the array.

After the user enters Control-D, the program should add up the numbers in the array and print the result.  

Your program should be divided into at least two functions with well designed interfaces.

Optionally, the program should produce an error if the sum exceeds the largest integer that can be represented.

Hint: You will probably want to use two functions we haven't seen yet:

* strlen: [Read about it here](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/c_standard_library/c_function_strlen.htm)

* atoi: [Read about it here](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/c_standard_library/c_function_atoi.htm)

Before you use there functions, you need to `#include <string.h>`.
